README.md, before:

Horned OWL
==========

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/horned-owl?style=flat-square)](https://crates.io/crates/horned-owl) [![docs.rs](https://img.shields.io/docsrs/horned-owl?style=flat-square)](https://docs.rs/horned-owl/latest/horned_owl/)

Horned-OWL is a library for manipulating data written using the [Web Ontology Language (OWL)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Ontology_Language).
While there are a number of libraries that manipulate this form
of data such as the [OWL API](https://github.com/owlcs/owlapi),
they can be quite slow. Horned-OWL is aimed at allowing ontologies
with millions of terms.

The library now implements all of OWL2, and we are working on further
parser functionality. We are testing it with real world tasks, such as
parsing the Gene Ontology, which is does in 2-3 seconds which is 20-40
times faster than the OWL API.

Library
-----

To use the latest version of the library in your Rust project, add the following line to your Cargo.toml file:

```toml
[dependencies]
...
horned-owl = "1.0.0"
```


Command Line Tools
------------------

A set of command line tools are available as in [Horned Bin](horned-bin/README.md).

Commit message:

fix: extends the README with features and projects using horned.

README.md, after:

Horned OWL
==========

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/horned-owl?style=flat-square)](https://crates.io/crates/horned-owl) [![docs.rs](https://img.shields.io/docsrs/horned-owl?style=flat-square)](https://docs.rs/horned-owl/latest/horned_owl/)

*Horned-OWL* is a library for processing and manipulating documents written using the [Web Ontology Language (OWL)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Ontology_Language).

It extends the existing ecosystem of Rust crates for the Semantic Web and provides tools to interact with OWL ontologies within Rust applications.
It leverages the features of Rust to be performant and competitive against other libraries for ontologies manipulation, such as the [OWL API](https://github.com/owlcs/owlapi). Horned-OWL is aimed at allowing ontologies
with millions of terms.


## Features

+ Supports the OWL 2 language as specified in the [W3C Recommendation](https://www.w3.org/TR/owl-overview/)
+ Supports the Semantic Web Rule Language as specified in the [W3C User Submission](https://www.w3.org/submissions/SWRL/)
+ Supports serialization/deserialization of the following OWL syntaxes:
  + [x] RDF/XML
  + [x] OWL/XML
  + [x] Functional Syntax
  + [ ] Manchester Syntax
+ Provides a [visitor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visitor_pattern) trait to navigate and manipulate ontologies
+ Provides traits and implementations for several types of ontologies

## Performance

We test the performance of our crate in validating large ontologies (e.g. the Gene Ontology) against competing implementations based on the OWL API. Preliminary results are encouraging, showing a potential speedup of 20x-40x.

## Library

To use the latest version of the library in your Rust project, add the following line to your Cargo.toml file:

```toml
[dependencies]
...
horned-owl = "1.0.0"
```


## Command Line Tools


A set of command line tools are available as in [Horned Bin](horned-bin/README.md).

## Projects using this crate

+ [py-horned-owl](https://github.com/ontology-tools/py-horned-owl): Python bindings for *Horned-OWL* 
+ [whelk-rs](https://github.com/INCATools/whelk-rs): an implementation of [Whelk](https://github.com/balhoff/whelk) in Rust
